
wminfo INSTALL


Requirements
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Root access if you want to install the program system-wide.


Installation
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  tar xzf wminfo-2.5.2.tar.gz
  cd wminfo-2.5.2/wminfo
  ./configure
  make
  su -                     # to install the program system-wide
  killall wminfo           # if an old version of wminfo is running
  make install

The ./configure command prepares Makefile installing wminfo in /usr/local
directory.  To install it in /usr directory use ./configure --prefix=/usr
command.

All options controlled by the program switches are collected at the
beginning of wminfo.c file for easy modifications if required.  So if you
would like to change the default behavior of wminfo modify those variables
before the compilation and installation of the program.


Usage
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
After the installation go to /usr/local/doc/wminfo-2.5.2 or
/usr/doc/wminfo-2.5.2 directory depending on the installation method and try
the plugins from plugins.online, plugins.system, and plugins.conky
directories.  To test them use respectively run-all-internet-plugins,
run-all-system-plugins, and run-all-conky-plugins scripts.  Before testing
conky dependent plugins you have to configure and run conky.  You can also
test wminfo running plugins from samples directory.  To run them use
run-all-samples script.

After the tests you can kill all wminfo instances running killall wminfo
command.

Instead of the plugins from plugins.online directory you can use the plugins
from plugins.offline directory.  The latter do not require the constant
Internet access but some system customization is necessary in order to use
them.

To use the particular plugins system-wide copy them to /usr/local/bin
directory.  Some plugins use scripts or text files.  Copy them together with
the plugins.  To use plugins from plugins.offline directory copy as well
online script and register it in crontab.  The directories with the plugins
include useful README files.  Read them if you want to know more.

To run wminfo use the following commands:

  wminfo -h                # displays brief help
  wminfo -p plugin.wmi     # runs a plugin

Each plugin includes a comment with the recommended command to run it
including: update time, ISO encoding, and background and foreground colors.
The same commands appear in run-all-*-plugins scripts from plugins.conky,
plugins.offline, plugins.online, and plugins.system directories.

If wminfo displays its help in dockable application window (that is it uses
default.wmi plugin) it means that the used command is wrong -- for example
you omitted -p switch before the plugin.wmi name.

For more information see: man wminfo.


Deinstallation
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  cd wminfo-2.5.2/wminfo
  make uninstall
